get your gloves and safety equipment
because in this project we're exploring
five ways to start a fire using water
grab an old light bulb and chisel out
the bottom so you can see down inside
now pour in a bit of hot water when you
shake it vigorously you'll notice the
white coating washes right out after
you've rinsed it a couple of times you
should have a crystal-clear bulb like
this fill the light bulb with water cap
the bottom with a balloon and voila
you've just created a makeshift
magnifying glass go ahead and use your
liquid light bulb to focus the sunlight
on a piece of newspaper it should start
smoking immediately in just a minute
later burst into flames find a small
dish and line it with plastic wrap in a
way that takes the shape of the bowl you
can add water until the bowl is nearly
full and gather each of the plastic
corners at the top this will form a
little liquid pouch and by twisting the
corners together you can seal the water
inside you've just formed a clear liquid
sphere that fits in the palm of your
hand now put the Sun behind you and
focus the light on a dark piece of paper
your tinder should start smoking within
seconds and when enough embers have
collected inside you'll soon have your
fire
take a picture frame and cover it with a
layer of plastic wrap then suspend it on
something a couple of feet off the
ground
now carefully pour hot water onto the
plastic and as you do it'll begin to sag
forming a natural and effective liquid
lens now gather up something you can use
as tinder and find the focal point of
the beam to concentrate the heat when
your tinder smoldering set it down so
that it rests in the beam and now you
can sit back and watch the elements
ignite the fire for you completely
hands-free try to find a juice bottle
that looks like a giant plastic bubble
and fill it with water position the
liquid filled bubble between the Sun and
your tinder pile until you find the spot
where it starts smoking hold everything
steady so the heat will continue to
build then add something like dried
grass to help you lift the pile up and
blow the smoldering embers into a flame
if the clouds have rolled over and
blocked off your solar supply you can
use a toilet paper roll and a couple of
chunks of sodium the paper roll should
be cut in half with a small piece cut
out of the bottom
a lot of tissue pushed into the top we
can use the lid of a jar as our starter
base and cover it with one square of
toilet paper and place the small bits of
sodium in the middle the paper roll sits
over top followed by a heavier gauge
kindling like a bunch of straw or dried
grass now carefully pour a tablespoon of
water into the base and run away
in just a couple of seconds a little
flame shoots out igniting the kindling
on top you can see how this would Stoke
a blazing fire in just a matter of
seconds now every experiment has its
dangers so if you try these methods
yourself make sure you have proper
safety equipment as well as adults
supervision well now you know five ways
to use water to start a fire if you
liked this project perhaps you'll like
some of my others check them out at the
king of random calm now you know how to
start a fire with water but do you know
how to find a fun german-engineered car
that makes sense to you might think it's
impossible but it's not anymore check
out my friends at Volkswagen who are a
huge support for this video all their
new cars come with no charge scheduled
maintenance for two years or 24,000
miles this means the car you really want
the one that's a blast to drive is also
the smart choice and now you know
[Music]